Jaslyne Marek's Daily Logs - Temporal Ecology Lab WorkLearn 2026

September 8th:
Completed New Worker Safety Orientation! This took half an hour.

September 9th: 
Finished the rest of the mandatory online UBC training courses to start work.

September 10th: 
Met with Mao to discuss possible projects for the year and see the lab. We talked about two possible projects, one of them being about the seed germination experiment, and another working with a large dataset from another lab. We got access to the building, lab room, and basement with the cold rooms. Looks like I'll need training for the autoclave so that we can dispose of some soil.

September 11th: 
Went into FSC to have autoclave training at 1pm with Mehrdad. In total this took about 30 mins, and we were also trained on the ice machine and distilled water dispenser which are located in the same room as the autoclaves. For soil, we need to use the older autoclave, and always make sure to use the autoclavable trays!! Mehrdad said that we should autoclave with Mao the first time we do it, just to make sure we have supervision. He also said to reach out if we ever have any questions, it was a very helpful training!

September 15th: 
Met with Mao to learn about measuring tree cores. We met for about 30 mins, and she taught me how to use the software to visualize the tree core images and measure the cores. I now have a work laptop and hard drive. I will be starting with AG05, I am very excited to start measuring.

Some important notes to remember:
only copy the photos over to the laptop
NEVER work directly out of the hard drive
Use the crack tool to identify cracks
only count up to 130 rings
track the measured cores in the provided spreadsheet
check GitHub for any info I forget, as Mao has provided a tutorial

September 17th:
Working on the GitHub sandbox tutorial. I managed to figure out how to complete the first part and push my .gitignore and unzipped files onto GitHub, hooray!!

September 18th:
Figured out how to push changes in daily log to GitHub (yay!), now I have my daily log in my hour tracking sheet.
Completed the GitHub sandbox tutorial and emailed the link to my repo as well as the text file with my commands used to Mao. Worked for about 1h 30mins from 9-10:30am.

3:15pm-3:45pm: Started measuring tree cores. Started with AG05! Starting to get the hang of it.

7:00pm-8:30pm: Continued measuring tree cores. AG05_4723 (1) and (2) did not have a correlation above 0.4. 

September 21st:
6:50pm - started with tree core measurements, 8:05pm, finished. Work laptop is being very slow and difficult to work with. 

September 23rd:
Went to first lab meeting from 3-4pm! We discussed a paper about a new model to understand geometric causes of species rarity. There was a bit of confusion from all of us regarding the randomness of barriers used in the model, and how those barriers were used for each species. Nevertheless, it was great to chat with everyone! I am looking forward to the journals we will be looking at in the future; as I will be assigned a journal (or two) to keep an eye on for related publications to the lab.

After the lab meeting, Lizzie and I met to go over how the lab has been so far and what the two possible future projects are. One of them is the seed germination experiment, and the other is related to the BC Ministry of Forests and reforestation. Both seem interested and I am looking forward to working on one of them! Lizzie suggested that I restart the work laptop to see if that fixes how slow it has been (why didn't I think of that!).

September 24th:
Restarting the computer worked! Now it isn't taking me 15 minutes to open file explorer!!! Getting back to the grind of measuring tree rings. Completed ABAM_AG05_4745, ABAM_AG05_4746. 

Hopped back on after class, did a few more tree core measurements. Re-checked a few with low correlations but couldn't find anything to increase the correlation.
